The world is broken.
Many. many years ago.
men who were born
with great power believed
they could cage Darkness itself.
The arrogance.
When they failed.
the seas boiled.
mountains were swallowed up.
cities burned.
and the women of the Aes Sedai
were left to pick up the pieces.
These women remembered one thing
above all else...
the man who brought
the Breaking of the World.
And him they named Dragon.
Now. this man has been
born again.
We don't know where or to whom.
If he was reborn as a girl
or a boy.
The only thing we know
for certain is that
this child is coming of age now.
and we must find them...
before the Dark does.
Hurry up!
Hyah! Hyah!
Hyah!
Stop!
I said stop!
We can't die like this.
You can fight them.
Use it.
Don't hurt him.
It's not his fault.
Who are you talking about?
There's one else here.
The madness already has him.
You see.
what we've come here do...
it's a gift.
You should thank me. really.
This Power...
it's meant for women...
...and women alone.
And when you touch it...
...you make it filthy.
Please. No.
- Please.
- Sisters.
Please. no. No!
Please!
It's not him.
He was born 20 years ago.
almost to the day the prophecy
of the Dragon Reborn predicted.
He's able to touch the Source.
It's not him.
Where next?
The Two Rivers.
There are rumors
of four ta'veren there.
all the right age.
The Old Blood runs deep
in those mountains.
Let's hope it's prepared them
for what's coming.
This braid will remind you
that you are a part of us
and we a part of you.
To be a woman is to be
always alone and never alone.
So when the Dark surrounds you
and you see no Light.
feel this braid and know
that we all stood before you.
We all stand with you.
As Wisdom of the Two Rivers.
it's my honor to welcome you
to the Women's Circle.
Be strong. Egwene.
Trust the river.
I remember when this road
was just a little deer path.
winding down the mountain.
How'd you get the wool to town?
Carried it.
And the brandy?
That stayed home.
Your mother could drink.
More wolves now.
Something's been pushing them
down from the mountain.
When you were just tiny.
we'd let you out
in these woods alone
to look for berries.
You'd always save
a basket of them
in the barn to take to Egwene.
Sounds like I used to be
a real sap.
The Coplins and Congars
were worried
we might be without apple brandy
this Bel Tine.
Wouldn't want them to remember
a minute of it.
Right.
Gentlemen. and lady.
I want to thank you all
very much
for bearing with me tonight.
Can't imagine it's been easy
to part with all your money.
but...
- You'll get 'em next time. Mat.
- Next time?
How about right now?
Eh? Anyone?
You don't have anything left
to bet.
Come on. Sit down.
How are you?
- How're the girls?
- You can spot me.
One game. three of us.
Old time's sake. eh?
- Come on. We're talking.
- About what?
You're married. your life's over.
And Rand's pining over Egwene.
cold in the mountains.
only the sheep to keep him warm.
- Did you hear already?
- Hear what?
A few folks went down to Taren
Ferry with the wool last week.
Town was full of soldiers
and mercenaries headed south.
- Why?
- They said there's a war in Ghealdan.
In Ghealdan? Who cares?
It was Callie Coplin told you
that. wasn't it?
- So?
- She'd piss in your mouth and tell you it was raining.
So. come on.
- Let's play.
- No?
- No.
No?
Okay. fine.
Enough of you guys.
Danya.
How much money did he lose
today?
I lost count. but it was more than enough.
My girl.
You're back.
I was worried that...
Come on. then.
- We're losing a coin for every empty hand here.
- No.
You drink with us tonight.
Marin!
A drink for your daughter!
- Cheers. everybody.
- Hey. -
Cheers!
How did her ceremony go today?
I don't know. actually.
We. uh...
We haven't talked yet.
- I'm sure she's just busy.
- Yeah. yeah.
I'm sure.
Name yourself. stranger.
Ian Mandragoran.
This is Moiraine.
Milady. can I help you?
We'll need stables
for our horses
and a room for the night.
Two beds and fresh linen.
That's all we need.
Of course. Moiraine Sedai.
If you'll come this way.
She looks like a normal person.
- I don't know. I...
- Quiet.
Who knows what she can hear?
Maybe she's headed
to the war in the south?
In the stories.
they say one Aes Sedai can turn
a battle on her own.
I don't care
where she's going to.
but we'll all be happier
and safer when she's there.
Where's Laila?
Probably at the forge.
Iron's hard to work alone.
Give Egwene my best.
What are you doing
in here?
Everyone is at the inn.
They said you didn't even go
to her ceremony.
I love you.
I know.
Mum?
Mum. what are you doing here?
Same thing as anyone else.
- Where's Dad?
- Huh.
Right where the whole town
could see him.
- The prick.
- Who's with the girls?
That pig!
Come on.
Time to go home. Mum.
- I will go wherever I want.
- Please.
How are you?
Matty. is Mum sick again?
- I'm fine. you little bi...
- She's all right.
Don't worry.
You're going to be
just like your dad.
I know it.
Damn prick like him.
Hey.
How about you two sleep with me
tonight. instead of Mum and Dad?
Yeah?
Cheers. Come on. then.
A thousand wars
have washed over
the lands down-mountain.
and Two Rivers folk don't have
any more need
to pay attention now
than before.
War is just fools killing
other fools for foolish causes.
Aes Sedai don't fight wars.
They pull the strings of the
world from their White Tower.
And if one of them's here...
Then she'll enjoy Bel Tine
tomorrow like the rest of us.
Rand. Egwene. why don't you two
finish up the dishes?
Of course.
You've been avoiding me.
Or biding my time
until I could get you alone?
How'd it go today?
- You know I can't talk about...
- It's me.
You can at least say
if it was good or bad.
It was...
...good.
I'm sorry. it's just...
I'm thinking about something
that Nynaeve...
You know...
...my dad said I used
to pick baskets of berries
to bring to you
when I was a kid.
Like some lovesick puppy.
Mm. Sounds sweet to me.
Has that been in your pocket
all day?
Maybe.
Come here.
It could be warmer.
I'm impressed
they have this at all.
It could be warmer.
Better?
Much.
What is it?
You think it's one of them?
Which one?
You let me fall asleep.
You act as if I had some say
in the matter.
What happened out there today?
It wasn't today.
It was before.
Nynaeve.
She asked me to become
her apprentice.
to study to be a Wisdom someday.
What?
No. you...
She asked.
I didn't say yes or no.
Really?
She thinks I'll be able
to listen to the wind
if I work with her.
It's a lonely life.
being a Wisdom.
No husband.
No kids.
I should get up to bed.
Rand.
Merry Bel Tine!
No. No sweet sticks for you.
Too early for breakfast?
Never too early
for your mum's bread.
He left before I woke.
Mat Cauthon.
My best and poorest customer.
Seems like I'm
your only customer.
So. what do you have for me
this year?
Oh. Oh. dear.
Not real gold. sadly.
Yes. it is.
It's worth three marks.
at least.
Mm. Possibly.
But will I be able to sell it
here in town?
I'll give you one mark.
- Two.
- Half a mark.
That will get you
three lanterns.
and you'll be lucky to have 'em.
You're a right bastard.
Padan Fain.
Pleasure as always.
You didn't sleep last night.
You think one of the Eyeless
is already here?
Then we both have work
to do today.
Thought you might be here.
When I come up here...
you know what I wonder about?
I wonder about my life here.
In the Two Rivers.
About the house I'll build.
The wife I'll have.
About my kids running through
these woods. just like I did.
- I'm going to...
- I know.
I already know.
They call you
a leader in this town. Wisdom.
and here you are. cleaning.
This pool is sacred.
It's an honor to clean it.
What are you doing here?
I wanted to walk.
In the Two Rivers.
I could ask the same of you.
You're not from here. are you?
The old Wisdom brought you here
when you were a baby...
a baby whose parents passed.
But no one can remember
exactly when.
That's the thing
about these little towns.
no one keeps records
of anything.
Births. deaths...
It doesn't mean
we don't remember.
That old Wisdom...
the woman who raised me...
When she was only 13.
she realized she could
listen to the wind.
and she went to the White Tower.
She walked.
From here.
It took her months.
And when she got there.
your sisters took one look
at her ragged clothes.
her peasant accent.
and they turned her away.
She was small
and from a little town.
but she remembered.
Until the day she died.
So do I.
See. people say you're too young
to be the Wisdom.
and I disagree.
I think you're strong.
even if you have only had
that braid for. what...
what. a year or two?
I've had it for five.
So that makes you 25... 26.
That doesn't mean
I can't do my job.
And whatever you may think.
that is to protect this town.
From you. if I have to.
Enjoy your walk.
Cheers. boys.
Made it through another year
of this shite.
All right. Out with it.
Out with what?
- Nothing.
- Bollocks.
Something happened with Egwene.
What happened?
That bad. was it?
Do you hear that?
It sounds...
wrong.
What does it mean?
I don't know.
I've never heard anything
like it.
Mat. we noticed
your luck wasn't really with you
last night.
So Rand and I chipped in.
To buy some lanterns
for the girls.
We'll be all right.
Thank you.
All right.
I should get home.
Don't stay up-mountain too long.
I won't.
Maybe we should be
at Bel Tine.
To light a candle for her.
Whole point is to help guide
her spirit back to us.
Doesn't matter where we are
when we do it. really.
How long does it take
before the Wheel of Time
turns someone's spirit back
into the world again?
Wish I knew.
But I'm sure there's a reason
no one can remember
their previous lives.
All we can do is the best we can
with the life
that's given to us.
And take comfort from it.
That no matter what happens.
what...
...pain we face...
...what heartbreak...
...even death...
...the Wheel keeps turning.
Always.
And we try again.
Maybe do a little better
than the last time.
Come on. now.
If we want our loved ones' souls
to make their way back here.
we'd best show them
something worth coming back for.
Come on.
The Fade
has Trollocs with it.
Dozens.
We need to leave. Now.
Do you know
which one of them it is?
No.
Tom?
Tom. what's wro...
Aah!
Get down.
Nynaeve. what's happening?
What are they?
Quick. quick!
Who are they?
Mum. Dad.
- Where are the girls?
- They... they were right here.
- I...
- Where are the girls?!
Help me! Help me!
Put pressure on it.
Hey. There.
It's stopped. It's stopped.
Dad. what is that?
Rand! Run!
Dad!
Hey! Over here!
Dad?
Dad. Are you all right?
I'm fine.
It's a Trolloc.
You need to get out of here.
You need to leave.
- Go.
- No.
I'll get you to Nynaeve.
Dear Light.
You want a real feast?
Come and get some of this.
Go. go!
Take my hand. Go.
Laila. run.
Run!
Move!
- Hey.
- Somebody help us!
Hey. Hey.
It's all right. I've got you.
I've got you. I've got you.
Don't worry. All right?
Remember when we played
hide-and-seek?
- Mm-hmm.
- Yeah?
Big oak in the woods.
Let's go.
No!
Nynaeve!
No. Laila. No. Laila.
I'm sorry. Oh.
Look at me. Look at me.
Look at me.
Nynaeve!
Come on. Come on
- Nynaeve.
- Come on. come on. come on.
There's too many.
Light give me strength.
Egwene.
Thank the Light.
My dad.
He needs help. Where...
Where's Nynaeve?
She's gone.
Can you help him?
Quick.
My babies.
- Mum!
- My baby girls.
- You're all right.
- Mummy. Mummy.
Oh. thank the Light.
Thank the Light.
Perrin!
Perrin?
It's Trolloc poison.
You show up.
then these things the next day.
They're here
for the same reason as I am.
For you.
For the four of you.
Twenty years ago.
there was a woman
at the White Tower.
An Aes Sedai born
with eyes so white.
she couldn't see anything.
Yet still she saw.
Glimpses of the turning
of the Wheel.
The Dark One is waking.
His whispers
are already in the backs
of our minds.
But there will be one
who can stand against him.
The Dragon has been born again.
And it's one of you.
You've fully lost your mind.
Moiraine.
What are those?
The Dark One's army.
- More Trollocs.
- Three hundred at least.
How did they get here so fast?
- Get the horses.
- What? You can't leave.
You're coming with me.
The four of you.
Your life isn't going to be
what you thought.
You've lived too long
in these mountains.
pretending that what happens
in the rest of the world
- won't affect you.
- We can't just leave.
They're after you.
They will follow you.
And if you stay here.
this is where they'll come.
They will leave nothing
and no one standing.
and I can't do anything
to stop them.
Our only chance
is to reach the White Tower
and the other sisters
of the Aes Sedai.
There's no time.
We leave now.
The Wheel of Time
turns.
and Ages come and pass.
leaving memories
that become legend.
Legend fades to myth.
and even myth is long forgotten
when the Age that gave it birth
comes again.
In one Age.
called the Third Age by some.
a wind rose
in the Mountains of Mist.
The wind was not the beginning.
There are neither beginnings
nor endings
to the turning
of the Wheel of Time.
But it was a beginning.